00:00   

Hello World! My name is Curtis --------, and I am a science educator in Vancouver, B.C. Canada. To start out, I actually really used to hate science. I was bad at it, and I found that it was just a bunch of useless memorization of facts that I would never use. 

00:19   

To save you my whole life story, I will summarize by saying that eventually in university I discovered it really for the first time, and it changed my life in three very significant ways. First being that I finally had, what I'll call a bullshit detector (and if that's not acceptable on this podcast, I could call it a baloney detector), and that was basically my tool set that I could use that would figure out if something was true or accurate, or if it was crack pseudo-science.

00:52   

Up until then, I had some of my own methods in developing, some of my own methods in figuring out what was true and what wasn't, what was real and accurate, and based on the logical process of science, and what was just crazy talk.

01:11   

It's really hard actually unless you know the scientific method to figure out what is true and what isn't. I mean everything seems to just be all the same if they use fancy terminology that you don't understand.

01:24   

So that's the one, first thing. Second thing is that the universe suddenly became very beautiful to me. There was... something interesting about everything. A flower wasn't just a pretty little shape on the ground, it was something that connected... you know, connected the birds and the bees to the plants and animals, and it was something that I was related to, and it was something that was made of atoms, suddenly it had more meaning to me.

01:52   

So that's the second thing. And the third thing is that I realized that science, actually... is the most important way, the most useful way, we have of figuring out how the world works, and it's because of science that we can progress and develop rockets, and save people's lives through the development of medicine, and the reason that we have, you know, robots, means that we don't have to work as long as we used to.

02:24   

The scientific method is a huge deal in why the world is like it is now, in terms of our human societies. So yeah, science has a very special place in my heart, and it's really changed my life, I went from hating it to now I am a science teacher. It matters to me, and I want to try to share that with others.

02:45   

So thanks for doing the Method podcast, on a totally side note, I think that's awesome, looking forward to hearing more from you guys and take care!
